# Bookworm Library App
Detatched Fork of Notts-Library-App for personal development
The Bookworm App is composed of 3 main components...

- React Frontend UI
- Backend Node Express HTTP Server
- PostgreSQL Database

## Running The App Locally

- In order to run the app locally, you will need to have **Docker** and **Node** installed on your machine.

### PostgreSQL Database & PG Admin

- To run the database, first navigate to the **"notts-library-database"** directory, and then run **"docker-compose up"** in your terminal.
- This will start two processes, the first is the database itself, the seccond is a **PGAdmin** instance to access the database via a GUI.
- To access PGAdmin open a browser and go to "**localhost:5050**", then enter the login credentials which can be found in the docker-compose file. You can then register the server within PGAdmin, again the credentials can be found in the docker-compose file.
- If this is the first time you are running the app, there won't be any tables in the database, this is becauase our tables are generated by our backend ORM.

### Backend Node Express HTTP Server

- To run the backend server first navigate to the **"notts-library-backend"** directory, and then run **"npm run start"** in your terminal, if it's your first time running the app, then you will need to run **"npm install"** first, to install the node modules.
- When the sever connects to the database it will run a check against its ORM model and the tables that are in the database, if no tables are present, it will automatically create the tables for you.
- The API can then be accessed via "**localhost:5000**" in your browser or an HTTP / API client.

### React Frontend UI

- To run the frontend UI first navigate to the **"notts-library-frontend"** directory, and then run **"npm run start"** in your terminal, if it's your first time running the app, then you will need to run **"npm install"** first.
- Then the UI should open up in your default browser, if not it is running on "**localhost:3000**".
